Well, in any graduation program,
we get to the point when the principal talk,
or the main talk, is given.
And this time, we have a special privilege
of having a longtime member
of the Governing Body,
Brother Samuel Herd, speak to us.
And the subject that he has
is a very interesting subject:
“Any Day Now.”
Brother Herd, please.
You will be going home
or to a new assignment.
We want you to know that you will be missed.
It was good for the Bethel family
to have you with us.
It was a blessing from Jehovah.
Like a pregnant woman,
your bellies are swelled to the limit.
All the signs tell you
that a baby is about to be born.
You’re rushed to see the doctor.
He examines you.
And you ask, “When?”
He says, “Any day now.”
Your minds and hearts are about to burst
with spiritual things to deliver to others.
Yes, this is a day for delivering.
Your spirituality is contagious.
When you walk into a room,
you bring sunshine with you.
Notice what Jesus said
to some of his followers
—Matthew 5:14-16:
“You are the light of the world.
“A city cannot be hid
“when located on a mountain.
“People light a lamp and set it,
“not under a basket,
“but on the lampstand,
“and it shines on all those in the house.
“Likewise, let your light shine before men,
“so that they may see your fine works
“and give glory to your Father
who is in the heavens.”
First of all,
your spiritual brothers and sisters
are in the house with you.
Shine on them, but don’t limit it to them.
We want others to see the light.
For the past five months,
you have been studying
the personality of Jehovah
and talking to him by means of prayer.
It’s true
that humans cannot see
the literal Person, Jehovah.
For Jehovah God to set down
a description of himself in spirit terms
would be like trying to explain colors
to a person born blind.
You have been asking for him
to help you in your studies,
and he has helped you.
Without his help,
you would not be graduating.
Now you’re ready as never before
to let your light shine
on your fleshly family members,
your Bible students,
and your spiritual brothers and sisters.
But don’t make it so bright and intense
that you put out the eyes
of those around you.
Turn the wick down in your lamp.
There is no need to say every time:
“We were taught this in Gilead.”
“We were taught this
in one of our Gilead classes.”
“A member of the Governing Body
called this to our attention
in a lecture he gave.”
You knew some things
before you came to Gilead.
You knew that God’s name is Jehovah
and that it is unique,
meaning the only one of its kind.
My name is Sam,
Samuel, or Sammy.
It is not unique.
There are many others with the same name.
I was named after my father’s brother
—Uncle Sam.
Did you get that, Uncle Sam?
I did not name myself.
A baby doesn’t say, after eight months
in his mother’s womb,
“Mommy, when I get out,
call me Sammy.”
God Almighty chose his name, Jehovah.
He named himself.
That is different; that is unique.
You Gilead students,
soon to be a Gilead graduates,
know Jehovah but not completely,
not the whole Person, just the fringe.
Compare what you see to an ornamental edging
of hanging threads of a garment.
You don’t see the whole garment.
Romans 11:33-36 says:
“O the depth
“of God’s riches and wisdom and knowledge!
“How unsearchable his judgments are
“and beyond tracing out his ways are!
“For ‘who has come to know Jehovah’s mind,
“or who has become his adviser?’
“Or, ‘who has first given to him,
“so that it must be repaid to him?’
“Because from him and by him and for him
“are all things.
“To him be the glory forever.
Amen.”
Job 36:26
tells us: “Yes, God
“is greater than we can know;
“the number of his years
is beyond comprehension.”
No matter how much knowledge
we have accumulated in our brain,
it amounts to a grain of sand on a seashore
when we live forever.
“Forever”?
That is an interesting word.
It is defined as “never-ending,
“incessantly,
ceaseless.”
That’s enough to blow
an imperfect man’s mind away
but not Jehovah’s mind.
And he promises obedient humans
everlasting, never-ending, life.
I’m going to read a scripture to you
without revealing
where it is found in the Bible.
It is one of the first
that captured my attention
back in 1956.
Now, that was before any of you were born.
“With that I heard a loud voice
“from the throne say: ‘Look!
“‘The tent of God is with mankind,
“‘and he will reside with them,
“‘and they will be his people.
“‘And God himself with be with them.
“‘And he will wipe out every tear
from their eyes,
“‘and death will be no more,
“‘neither will mourning nor outcry
“‘nor pain be anymore.
The former things have passed away.’”
Where is it in the Bible?
Revelation 21:3, 4.
I knew you would know that one.
We are limited
to how much knowledge our brains
can understand and sort out correctly.
Yes, one day
we will know much more than we know today.
But we will not know it all.
That’s good.
You will never be a know-it-all.
Now is the time to let your light shine.
Our work at the present
is to inform people
that the Kingdom of God,
a heavenly government,
is the only remedy
to the woes of mankind, which are causing
so much suffering and death.
Inform people of the Kingdom,
but don’t blind them with your bright light
of knowledge learned at Gilead.
A little light will be enough
for them to see where to go.
When I was in the army in Germany years ago,
I drove a truck with five men inside
and an M101 howitzer artillery gun
attached to the rear of the truck.
We traveled during a pitch-dark night
with no lights used.
We could only see the tail light
of the vehicle in front.
That was enough light to follow.
Keep in mind,
there may not be enough time left
for your students
and new brothers and sisters
to learn all that you know.
Feed them not a heavy meal
of steak and baked potatoes
but an appetizer
to stimulate the juices in the mouth.
Any day now
nations will cause the peoples
who are looking to them for guidance to think
they have finally established peace.
The need for peace is already
being talked about by national leaders.
We are not fooled by this sham cry
of “Peace and security!”
First Thessalonians 5:3 says:
“Whenever it is that they are saying,
“‘Peace and security!’
“then sudden destruction
“is to be instantly on them,
“just like birth pains
“on a pregnant woman,
and they will by no means escape.”
Jehovah will have
the political powers of this world
turn against Babylon the Great
(that’s false religion).
After they see the handwriting
on the wall for her
and destroy her
(“sudden destruction” instantly
—it won’t take long),
her supporters will cry out,
weeping and mourning, and say,
“Too bad, too bad!”
But we will be thinking,
‘I’m glad; I’m glad!’
Revelation 18:20 says:
“Be glad over her, O heaven,
“also you holy ones
“and apostles and prophets,
“because God has pronounced his judgment
on her in your behalf!”
Are you ready?
Are you ready
to “be glad over her” destruction?
I think you are.
But I can’t make that determination.
We will know if we were ready
as Jehovah protects us
when the nations turn their guns on us.
Now is the time
for us to continue strengthening
our faith and trust
in Jehovah’s love for us.
Study, meditate,
associate, and preach the Kingdom.
Young David, when facing Goliath,
had five smooth stones in his pouch,
the pouch of his shepherd’s bag.
He only used one,
but he was prepared in case he needed more.
When we read the Bible and meditate on it,
our figurative heart absorbs God’s Word.
Like putting symbolic stones
in our figurative heart,
this gives us the inner strength we need
to preach the Kingdom message now
and to proclaim
the hard-hitting judgment message
that we may deliver in the near future.
The day for salvation will be closed
any day now.
When Noah had gathered all the creatures
that Jehovah had designated,
along with all necessary food
needed for all in the ark,
they went into the ark.
Note, it was Jehovah who closed the door,
not Noah.
Genesis 7:16 says:
“So they went in, male and female
“of every sort of flesh,
“just as God had commanded him.
“After that Jehovah
shut the door behind him.”
We don’t take it upon ourselves
to close the door to salvation.
Jehovah shuts the door,
and we can’t push it open
to let Mom or anyone else in.
You Gileadites
are professional preachers and teachers.
You have received training
that not many of your brothers and sisters
will have the privilege to receive
on this side of Armageddon.
Yes, without a doubt, you are wiser now
than you used to be
but not as wise as Jesus was
when he said: “What I teach is not mine,
but belongs to him who sent me.”—John 7:16.
We believe Jehovah sent you to Gilead.
Keep foremost in mind
that what you teach belongs to Jehovah,
and conduct yourselves
in a manner that displays that.
Let your light shine, not too brightly,
but just a flicker,
as needed before nightfall
—any day now.
Don’t worry, Brother Herd,
those weren’t people leaving
because they were upset with your talk.
Those are the students going backstage.
Brother Herd, we loved the talk.
It was classic Herd,
and we really enjoyed
the points you brought out.
It was very comforting for me
because this is the first time
we’ve had two Geoffreys
on the same program.
But speaking on behalf
of the other members of the Governing Body,
we know there is only one, unique,
Samuel Herd,
and we love you for it.
Well, now we have this part
where we give you some statistics
before we get into
the really interesting things.
The number of students in this class is 24;
the average age, 42.8;
the average years baptized, 26.5;
the average years in full-time service, 19.4;
the average years
in special full-time service, 14.4;
and then the number of languages
spoken by the 24 students,
17.
That’s very interesting.
Another interesting feature
to our program today
is that we have for the first time
the opportunity to find out
how many are tied in
with the live stream
on JW Stream.
So we can actually give you some idea
of how many
were listening live to the program.
And we thank those that are tied in
for taking the time
to put in the attendance figures.
So first of all, from Canada Bethel,
we had 398 in attendance.
From the United States Bethel,
including the remote offices,
we had 5,463;
then the live audience via JW Stream,
42,558
in 132 countries.
So that makes for a total of 48,419.
Probably most of us on the program
are so glad we didn’t know
so many were listening.
We have some greetings from near and far.
We’ll just quickly go through
some of the comments.
The Australasia branch sends
their warmest love and Christian greetings.
The Benin branch refers to Isaiah 26:12,
and there they quote Jehovah saying,
“Everything we have— ”
Sorry, not Jehovah,
but the Israelites were saying:
“Everything we have done
you have accomplished for us.”
And that captures the thought, doesn’t it?
Britain mentions how the students
will have beautiful memories
and new friendships that will continue on,
and they’ll treasure them for many years.
Central African Republic
expresses their deepest gratitude
because for the first time,
a couple from the Central African Republic
has been able to attend Gilead.
The Czech-Slovak branch
of 115 Bethelites there
send their love and greetings
—also the Dominican Republic, France,
Haiti, Japan, Kazakhstan
(the list goes on and on),
Mozambique, Peru, the Philippines, Senegal,
South Africa, Spain, Turkey,
and also our brothers in Ukraine.
Let me read what they say:
“As you put your increased knowledge
“and strengthened faith to work,
“you will certainly prove to be
a source of great comfort
“to your fellow believers
in your assignments.
“This is all important
“in these very last days
of this system of things,
“as we have witnessed in our branch territory
“in the recent months of the ongoing war.
We wish you Jehovah’s rich blessing.”
Don’t we appreciate those greetings?
Now we’ve gotten to the point
where we have the opportunity
to present the diplomas,
and Brother David Schafer,
a helper to the Teaching Committee, is here
with this high-pressure job.
And he has the very interesting assignment
of naming the families,
the brothers and sisters.
Some of them have
a little bit difficult names to pronounce,
but I’m sure you’ll be good, Dave.
And then he has to give me
the envelopes to pass on.
So I’m handing it over to you.
So first we have Brother and Sister İzci.
They’ll return to the Turkey branch.
Brother İzci has been appointed
to serve on the Branch Committee.
Brother and Sister Maruška
will return to the Czech-Slovak branch.
Brother and Sister Mkubukeli
will return to the South Africa branch.
Brother Ouedraogo
will return to the Benin branch.
Brother and Sister Peláez
will return to the Peru branch.
Brother and Sister Peyre
will return to the France branch.
Brother Peyre has been appointed
to serve on the Branch Committee.
Brother and Sister Piscopo
will return to the Australasia branch.
Brother Piscopo has been appointed
to serve on the Branch Committee.
Brother Ramos will return
to the United States branch.
Brother and Sister Salvado
will return to the Mozambique branch.
Brother Salvado has been appointed
to serve on the Branch Committee.
Brother and Sister Sohinto
will return to the Benin branch.
Brother Sohinto has been appointed
to serve on the Branch Committee.
Brother and Sister Soixante will return
to the Central African Republic branch.
Brother and Sister Suárez
will return to the Colombia branch.
And thanks very much, Brother Schafer,
who will return to Warwick.
Well, I have the pleasure now
to introduce you
to the graduates
of the 152nd class of Gilead.
And at this point, we have a letter
that’s going to be read
by Brother Jason Piscopo,
who is returning to Australasia,
and he’s reading this letter
on behalf of this class.
“Dear brothers of the Governing Body
and the Bethel family:
“‘With what will I repay Jehovah
for all the good he has done for me?’
“How fittingly these words of Psalm 116:12
“describe the sentiments of each one of us
“at the end of this wonderful journey!
“Our hearts
are simply bursting in appreciation
“to our loving Grand Instructor, Jehovah.
“Prior to coming to Gilead,
“we strived to develop a close relationship
with our heavenly Father.
“However, over the past five months,
“our eyes have been opened
even further to God’s glory
“as we have delved
into the deeper facets of his personality
“through the pages of his Word.
“How fascinating it has been
“to see how Jehovah
is not a God of random acts,
“but One who causes to become,
“patiently revealing
his diversified wisdom
“in so many ways!
“As we contemplate
the things we have learned,
“our feelings
are like those of Job, who said:
“‘My ears have heard about you,
“but now I do see you with my eyes.’
“What a privilege it has been
to be instructed by you,
“dear brothers of the Governing Body!
“Your humility, modesty, unity,
“and deep love for Jehovah and his sheep
“were clearly evident
in both your words and demeanor.
“How touching it was for us to see!
“Although you are so busy,
“you selflessly took out time
out of your schedules
“to teach and encourage us.
“We are convinced
that Jehovah is using you, dear brothers,
“in a powerful way to direct
the earthly part of his organization.
“And it is our prayer
that He continue to provide you
“with his dynamic holy spirit
to carry out your assignment.
“We have developed a special fondness
for those selected to teach us.
“Their teaching
did not limit itself to the classroom.
“Like Gideon, who said:
‘Watch me and do exactly what I do,’
“they were living examples
of the things they taught.
“Their counsel was always given in love,
“and their experiences
always accompanied valuable life lessons.
“We love you, dear brothers,
“and will treasure the time we had with you.
“We also love and treasure
“the dear brothers and sisters
of the United States Bethel family.
“Our training began even before
ever stepping foot in the classroom.
“From the moment we arrived,
we experienced your love and hospitality.
“Prior to coming to Gilead,
we’d heard about your love.
“But now we have seen and felt it.
“You, brothers and sisters,
truly are a gift from Jehovah,
“and we thank you
from the bottom of our hearts.
“Now, as we move on
to our various assignments,
“the words of the apostle Paul
“at 2 Corinthians 6:1
“echo in our minds and hearts,
“as he urged fellow Christians
“‘not to accept the undeserved kindness
of God and miss its purpose.’
“The purpose of Gilead
“is to strengthen
and stabilize the brotherhood,
“and that is our determination.
“Like the apostle Paul,
“we are determined
to impart to our brothers
“not only the things that we have learned
“‘but also our very selves,’
“all to the glory and honor
of our heavenly Father, Jehovah.
“Please accept this expression
of our warm love for you.
Your brothers, the 152nd class of Gilead.”
Well, it’s been a privilege
to be able to come and visit you
and give some lectures for your Gilead class,
and I’ve always enjoyed it.
But now I have a special privilege
to speak (first time)
to the graduates of the 152nd class.
That seems like an awesome thought,
doesn’t it?
And we’re glad that you made it this far.
We know there’s been a lot of hard work
that has gone into it.
So what final comments
would we like to give you?
We’ve had so many good things
on the program already today, haven’t we?
And even if we were a little bit overwhelmed
and you were worried
about certain aspects of the program,
at least you can watch it
on JW Broadcasting® later
and get the main points.
Well, remember in the beginning,
we talked about the need for us to be modest
and to be enthusiastic but patient.
And we remember
how Jesus set a wonderful example for us
in acknowledging humbly
that he had an assignment
and that he put
that assignment first in his life.
But he also showed wonderful balance,
didn’t he?
When the Syrophoenician woman
begged him to help her,
because of her expression of faith
and accepting him as the Messiah,
he was willing to be flexible.
And what a wonderful blessing she got!
And then the Roman officer
and the Samaritan woman
—all these people were ones who, really,
technically weren’t part of his territory.
And yet they got wonderful blessings
because they asked specially for some help.
Well, what are the lessons for us?
Well, maybe before we go on to the lessons,
we can think of some
of the other non-Israelites
who gained some benefit from Jesus’ ministry.
Who else would you think of?
What about Pontius Pilate
and those in his court?
When he had all these discussions,
well, now, I’m not telling you
that Pontius Pilate benefited from it.
But we do see
that he had a wonderful opportunity
—didn’t he?—
because he was a sort of person
who was a very violent man,
a person who at the drop of a hat
would have someone executed.
And yet what do we see?
Over and over again,
he seemed to try
and avoid sentencing Jesus to death.
Well, we know that something impressed him.
Again, is this one of the times
when Jesus spoke in Greek to him
or some other language?
Who knows?
I’m not speculating,
but we do know that he was very impressed.
And what about those
who were there listening?
There was a lot going on.
Well, remember later
when Jesus actually died,
there was a centurion.
And this centurion acknowledged
that this was the Son of God.
The study note, if you check it later,
says maybe he was there with Pontius Pilate.
Makes sense, doesn’t it?
He was perhaps in charge of organizing this.
So that man got a tremendous benefit
from at least seeing Jesus
and hearing his testimony
—a non-Israelite
but someone who gained benefit.
And then finally,
what about those two Roman soldiers
who witnessed the resurrection?
Now, they didn’t have a chance
to talk to Jesus, as far as we know,
but they did see the angel
roll back the stone.
What an impact that would have had
on their lives!
So thinking about these ones
that we’ve just discussed,
what do we see?
Well, when you go back to your assignments,
as we mentioned, there’ll be the temptation
to get yourself involved
with everything that is going on
—to visit the 90 islands, to get a ship.
No, I know you’re not going to do that,
but the temptation will be there
to sort of see the need
to help as many people as possible.
But what’s the point?
Remember, you have an assignment.
Each one of you now
has a specific assignment.
Put that first.
Be faithful and loyal to Jehovah.
Apply all these things
that you’ve not only heard in Gilead
but also in today’s program.
And then be patient.
Leave it to Jehovah.
Remember, it’s Jehovah’s work, isn’t it?
I remember one dear brother
of the Governing Body
made a comment once, you know,
when he was facing a difficult situation.
He just looked and said,
“It’s Jehovah’s problem.”
Yeah, and that’s what we need to recognize.
Some things we leave to Jehovah.
So as you go,
we wish you Jehovah’s blessing.
Remember,
be enthusiastic but also be patient.